.\"
.\"	chip8 - video game interpreter
.\"	Copyright (C) 1990, 1998, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.hy 0
.ad l
.ds n) chip8dis
.TH \*(n) 1
.SH NAME
chip8dis \- disassemble chip8 programs
.if require_index \{
.XX "chip8dis(1)" "disassemble chip8 programs"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option ...
]
.I binary\[hy]file
.I assembler\[hy]file
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
program is used to disassemble chip8 programs.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood.
.TP 8n
.B \-Help
This option may be used to
provide information about how to use the
.I \*(n)
program.
.TP 8n
.B \-VERSion
This option may be used to
provide inforation about the version on the
.I \*(n)
program being executed.
.PP
All options are case\[hy]insensitive.
Abbreviations are indicated by the upper\[hy]case letters.
Options and other command line arguments may be aribtrarily
mixed on the command line.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR chip8as (1)
An assembler, for assembling chip8 programs into the byte\[hy]code to be
interpreted.
.TP 8n
.IR chip8as (5)
The opcodes, as understood by the assmbler, and how they are interpreted
by the interpreter.
.TP 8n
.IR chip8run (1)
The interpreter, to run the assembled byte code.
.TP 8n
.IR chip8run (5)
The file format, as output by the assembler and as understood by the
interpreter.
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
