.\"
.\"	chip8 - video game interpreter
.\"	Copyright (C) 1990, 1998, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.hy 0
.ad l
.ds n) chip8as
.TH \*(n) 1
.SH NAME
chip8as \- assemble chip8 programs
.if require_index \{
.XX "chip8as(1)" "assemble chip8 programs"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option ...
]
.I source\[hy]file
.I binary\[hy]file
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
program is used to assemble chip8 programs
for execution by the
.I chip8run
program.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood.
.TP 8n
.B \-Help
This option may be used to
provide information about how to use the
.I \*(n)
program.
.TP 8n
.B \-VERSion
This option may be used to
provide inforation about the version on the
.I \*(n)
program being executed.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Listing\fP \fIlisting\[hy]file\fP
This option may be used to
specify a listing file.
By default, no listing is produced.
The word
.B \-
may be used to indicate
.IR stdout .
.TP 8n
.B \-Hewlett_Packard_Header
This option may be used to cause \*(n) to emit a
Hewlett\[hy]Packard 48 calculator header to the binary file.
The default is to emit no header.
.TP 8n
.B \-Unix_Header
This option may be used to cause \*(n) to emit a
unix #! header to the binary file.
he default is to emit no header.
.PP
All options are case\[hy]insensitive.
Abbreviations are indicated by the upper\[hy]case letters.
Options and other command line arguments may be aribtrarily
mixed on the command line.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR chip8as (5)
The opcodes, as understood by the assmbler, and how they are interpreted
by the interpreter.
.TP 8n
.IR chip8run (1)
The interpreter, to run the assembled byte code.
.TP 8n
.IR chip8run (5)
The file format, as output by the assembler and as understood by the
interpreter.
.TP 8n
.IR chip8dis (1)
A disassembler, so that you can turn assembled byte code into something
more readable.
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
