.\"
.\"	chip8 - video game interpreter
.\"	Copyright (C) 1990, 1998, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so etc/libdir.so
.hy 0
.ad l
.ds n) chip8run
.TH \*(n) 1
.SH NAME
chip8run \- run a chip8 program
.if require_index \{
.XX "chip8run(1)" "run a chip8 program"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option ...
]
.I game
.br
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option ...
]
.B \-File
.I binary\[hy]file
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
program is used to run chip8 programs.
It is an X11 client.
.PP
The first form, where only the name of a game is given,
constructs a filename of the form \f(CW\*(L)/\fP\fIgame\fP\f(CW.chp\fP
and attempts to open it.
.PP
The second form may be used to open a specific file.
.PP
A great variety of file formats are understood, including some of the
HP48 formats, and also the \s-2UNIX\s+2 executable \f(CW#!\fP convention.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood.
.TP 8n
.B \-Help
This option may be used to
provide information about how to use the
.I \*(n)
program.
.TP 8n
.B \-VERSion
This option may be used to
provide inforation about the version on the
.I \*(n)
program being executed.
.TP 8n
\fB\-BackGround\fP \fIcolor\fP
This option may be used to
set the backgound of the
.I \*(n)
window to the color specified.
.TP 8n
\fB\-BorDer_color\fP \fIcolor\fP
This option may be used to
set the border color of the
.I \*(n)
window to the color specified.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Border_Width\fP \fInumber\fP
This option may be used to
set the border width of the
.I \*(n)
window to the width specified.
.TP 8n
.B \-DEbug
This option may be used to
turn on debugging mode.
Additional information is displayed as to the chip8 machine's internal state.
Addition buttons are provided for additional control.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Display\fP \fIdisplay\[hy]name\fP
This option may be used to
set which X display to use.
The default is the
.I $DISPLAY
environment variable,
or
.B ":0"
if not set.
.TP 8n
\fB\-FoNt\fP \fIfont\[hy]name\fP
This option may be used to
set the font to be used in the
.I \*(n)
window.
.TP 8n
\fB\-ForeGround\fP \fIcolor\fP
This option may be used to
set the foregound of the
.I \*(n)
window to the color specified.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Geometry\fP \fIgeometry\[hy]spec\fP
This option may be used to
specifiy the initial position and/or size of the
.I \*(n)
window.
.TP 8n
.B \-IConic
This option may be used to
specify that the
.I \*(n)
window should initially be iconic.
You need a cooperative window managaer.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Icon_Geometry\fP \fIgeometry\[hy]spec\fP
This option may be used to
specify the position and/or size of the
.I \*(n)
window's icon.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Name\fP \fIstring\fP
This option may be used to
set the name the
.I \*(n)
window is referred to as.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Test_Mode\fP
This option may be used to test the chip8 machine.
It makes the "Quit" button generate and exit code of 1, rather than 0 (it
is an error if the user quits out of a test).
It makes screen placement forced.
Run\[hy]time errors result in exit 1, rather than turning on debugging.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Title\fP \fIstring\fP
This option may be used to
set the name the
.I \*(n)
window is referred to as.
.TP 8n
\fB\-XRM\fP \fIstring\fP
This option may be used to
specify an X resource.
.PP
All options are case\[hy]insensitive.
Abbreviations are indicated by the upper\[hy]case letters.
Options and other command line arguments may be aribtrarily
mixed on the command line.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.SH FILES
.TP 8n
\*(L)
This directory is where games are installed.
A number of games are included in this distribution.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR chip8as (1)
An assembler, for assembling chip8 programs into the byte\[hy]code to be
interpreted.
.TP 8n
.IR chip8as (5)
The opcodes, as understood by the assmbler, and how they are interpreted
by the interpreter.
.TP 8n
.IR chip8run (5)
The file format, as output by the assembler and as understood by the
interpreter.
.TP 8n
.IR chip8dis (1)
A disassembler, so that you can turn assembled byte code into something
more readable.
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
